WEEK 1
This module teaches the basics of Python and begins by exploring some of the different data types such as integers, real numbers, and strings. Continue with the module and learn how to use expressions in mathematical operations, store values in variables, and the many different ways to manipulate strings.
Learning Objectives:
Demonstrate an understanding of types in Python by converting or casting data types such as strings, floats, and integers.
Interpret variables and solve expressions by applying mathematical operations.
Describe how to manipulate strings by using a variety of methods and operations.
Build a program in JupyterLab to demonstrate your knowledge of types, expressions, and variables.
Work with, manipulate, and perform operations on strings in Python.


WEEK 2
This module begins a journey into Python data structures by explaining the use of lists and tuples and how they are able to store collections of data in a single variable. Next learn about dictionaries and how they function by storing data in pairs of keys and values, and end with Python sets to learn how this type of collection can appear in any order and will only contain unique elements.
Learning Objectives:
Describe and manipulate tuple combinations and list data structures.
Execute basic tuple operations in Python.
Perform list operations in Python.
Write structures with correct keys and values to demonstrate understanding of dictionaries.
Work with and perform operations on dictionaries in Python.
Create sets to demonstrate understanding of the differences between sets, tuples, and lists.
Work with sets in Python, including operations and logic operations.


WEEK 3
This module discusses Python fundamentals and begins with the concepts of conditions and branching. Continue through the module and learn how to implement loops to iterate over sequences, create functions to perform a specific task, perform exception handling to catch errors, and how classes are needed to create objects.
Learning Objectives:
Classify conditions and branching by identifying structured scenarios with outputs.
Work with objects and classes.
Explain objects and classes by identifying data types and creating a class.
Use exception handling in Python.
Explain what functions do.
Build a function using inputs and outputs.
Explain how for loops and while loops work
Work with condition statements in Python, including operators and branching
Create and use loop statements in Python.


WEEK 4
This module explains the basics of working with data in Python and begins the path with learning how to read and write files. Continue the module and uncover the best Python libraries that will aid in data manipulation and mathematical operations.
Learning Objectives
Explain how Pandas use data frames.
Use Pandas for library and data analysis by using commands.
Read text files using Python libraries including open and with.
Use NumPy to create one-dimensional and two-dimensional arrays.
Write and save files in Python.

WEEK 5
This module delves into the unique ways to collect data by the use of APIs and webscraping. It further explores data collection by explaining how to read and collect data when dealing with different file formats.
Learning Objectives
Explain the use of the HTTP protocol using the Requests Library method.
Describe how the URL Request Response HTTP protocol works.
Learn to apply simple, open-source APIs.
Perform basic webscraping using Python.
Work with different file formats using Python.
Explain the difference between APIs and REST APIs.
Summarize how APIs receive and send information.